1. Introduction
About NASSCOM
NASSCOM is the industry association for the IT-BPM 
sector in India. A not-for-profit organisation funded by the industry, its objective is to build a growth-led, sustainable, 
technology and business services sector in the country.
Established in 1988, NASSCOM’s membership has grown 
over the years and currently stands at over 1,400. The 
member organisations contribute to 95 per cent of the industry’s revenues and have enabled the association to 
spearhead initiatives and programmes to build the sector in 
the country and globally.
NASSCOM members are active participants in the new 
global economy and are admired for their innovative 
business practices, social initiatives and thrust on emerging 
opportunities.
NASSCOM is headquartered in New Delhi, India, and has offices 
in seven other cities including Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, 
Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune and Thiruvananthapuram. 
Vision
To help the IT and IT enabled products and services industry in India to be a trustworthy, respected, innovative and society friendly industry in the world.
Mission
•  Establish  India as a hub for innovation  and professional 
services
•  Deepen the IT-BPM industry’s  footprint in its core markets 
and beyond, by building strategic partnerships with its 
customers
•  Facilitate  growth and maintain  India’s leadership  position 
as a trusted and safe place to do business
•  Be a conduit of change through thought leadership, 
research, market intelligence and membership engagement 
•  Work with government  to shape policy in all key areas of 
activities such as skill development, trade and business 
services
•  Provide platforms  for members  and other stakeholders  to 
interact and network
•  Expand the country’s pool of relevant and skilled talent and harness the benefits of ICT to drive inclusive and 
balanced growth
‘Transform Business, Transform India’ is the overall objective of NASSCOM and its member organisations.
Members
NASSCOM members are organisations in India engaged in the business of IT services, BPM, software products, engineering design, internet, e-Commerce and gaming.
India headquartered organisations, multi-national 
service providers with presence in India and Global In-house Centres’ (GICs) of foreign corporations are equally represented in the membership of NASSCOM. 
Team
The NASSCOM team is headed by the President, who reports to the Chairman and the Executive Council. NASSCOM structure has evolved keeping in view the priorities and needs of its members. A fluid organisation structure enables proactive dealing and should be able to:
•  Articulate added scope, role and learning opportunities 
•  Stimulate staff aspirations for career growth and •  Ensure that high performance levels are recognised  
and rewarded 
* This grade structure is applicable for all regular and full-time employees of NASSCOM.Group Team Grades G1-G10 Designations
IBusiness 
LeadershipG10
G9Senior Vice President
Vice President
IISenior 
ManagementG8
G7
G6Senior Director 
Director/Regional 
Director
Deputy Director
IIIMiddle 
ManagementG5
G4
G3Senior Manager
Manager
Deputy Manager
IVJunior 
ManagementG2
G1Senior Associate
Associate
VOther Staff 
(assistants; 
support staff)No Level Office AssistantsGrade Structure
5 Human Resource  Policy Manual2. Values and Behaviours
NASSCOM has been built on a strong foundation of 
values. It has managed to nurture its strong culture of 
volunteerism among its members and has helped to  
preserve its institutional memory. The existing values,  
are laid out below:
•  Continue to maintain and enhance trust with all the 
stakeholders- Members, clients of  member companies, 
governments in India (central and state) and overseas, 
media, academia and society.
•  Remain apolitical and not aligned to any party 
ideologies. NASSCOM’s main objective is to enable  the betterment of the country through information 
technology.
•  Be an open platform for sharing best practices among 
member companies. This could be in areas of client management, human resources, governance, security, 
and other such areas.
•  NASSCOM  has propounded  a desirable  code of conduct 
to be practiced by member companies. However, this is 
self regulatory and members are expected to abide by it.
•  In every transaction that NASSCOM is involved in, it will 
adhere to the best principles of fairness, transparency and accountability.
•  NASSCOM will not endorse the commercial interests of 
any company, association or business.
•  NASSCOM will show the same level of commitment 
towards all its members. It will always act without any bias for type, ownership, size or contributions (financial 
and others) to NASSCOM.
•  NASSCOM will strive to retain a free market 
environment for its member companies. It will oppose any attempts by any lobby to bring in protectionism in 
the area of their operations.
•  NASSCOM will strive to promote and leverage a culture 
of collegiality, co-operation, openness, harmony, trust and fairness in interactions among its members, 
including the Executive Council.
•  NASSCOM will strive to continue its emphasis on 
leanness and operational efficiency in its operations.
•  In pursuing policies beneficial to member companies, 
NASSCOM will always keep the overall welfare of the society  as an important objective.•  NASSCOM will continue to create mechanisms to 
strengthen its institutional memory.
Expectation from each team member
NASSCOM values are our guiding principles and drive our 
behaviour. Our conduct is based on a shared belief system which is entrenched into the organisation’s DNA and guides individual and organisational behaviour.
Behavioural Expectation from each team member includes:
Integrity
•  Unquestionable integrity in every dealing with  
all stakeholders
•  Personal honesty in thoughts, actions and relationships 
with internal and external stakeholders
•  Transparency in the conducting of day-to-day business
•  Ensuring confidentiality of data and information 
Leadership
•  Being proactive and lead from the front
•  Being responsive to colleagues, members and other 
external stakeholders
•  Being creative – multiple solutions to a problem
•  Being resourceful  to enable teams to deliver results 
•  Taking ownership for self and team’s actions
It’s not hard to make 
decisions when you know what your values are.
6 Human Resource  Policy ManualPassion
•  Taking pride in what we do
•  Enthusing others with energy and zeal•  Positivity and self-belief•  Exceeding  expectations  and delivering  stakeholder  delight 
•  Managing challenges in a dynamic environment 
•  Continuously learning and engaging;
Respect
•  Respecting colleagues, customers, members and 
everyone we interact with 
•  Encouraging free flow of ideas and communication 
•  Recognising other’s ideas, suggestions  
and contributions
•  Supportive and constructive feedback 
•  Celebrating differences and culturesTeamwork
•  Leverage expertise and skills of team members•  Cross-functional responsibilities
•  Sharing  credit and kudos, seeking ideas and suggestions
•  Sharing best practices, experiences and information
•  Feedback to encourage change and personal growth
Ownership
•  Professional conduct of responsibility and accountability 
•  Align with organisational  goals and internalise  its vision, 
mission and core values
•  Judicious usage of all office facilities and resources 
•  Ownership beyond defined boundaries
•  Adhere to organisational policies and practices
7 Human Resource  Policy Manual
We strictly abide by the POSH Policy and treat sexual harassment
 at workplace an actionable misconduct.Objective
To ensure a disciplined work culture and punctuality, so  
as to maximise efficiency and ensure responsiveness  to stakeholders.
Working Hours
The work week comprises five days (Monday to Friday), except on declared holidays.
Normal working hours are: 9:30 am – 6:00 pm, with a  
30 minute break for lunch. Employees may be required 
to work beyond official timings or on holidays due to exigencies of work.
On Saturdays, Sundays and declared holidays, office will 
remain closed, except for those required to come in due to exigencies of work.
Employees are encouraged to effectively manage their 
time so that they can leave by 6:00 pm. Late work, for 
exigencies, should be the exception rather than the norm. Staying back late cannot be used as a reason for arriving late the next morning.
Flexi timings is allowed as per the following guidelines:
•  The office timing will be from 8:30 am till 5:00 pm and  
9:30 am to 6:00 pm
•  It would be incumbent on all to have a normal 8.5 hours 
per day at minimum
•  To help the workflow, each employee will need to 
maintain predictability and regularity in timings and 
should inform his/her manager accordingly
•  Attending any meeting arranged (internal or external) 
will be binding irrespective of the time involved 
•  The attendance register should have the noting of time 
of arrival and exit
Attendance
An attendance register will be maintained in all NASSCOM offices. It is mandatory for all employees to mark their attendance by signing at the time of both entry and exit; 
not signing the register will denote absence from work.3. Working Hours and Attendance
In case the employee is going out for a meeting or will be 
late in coming to office, or is going out of town, it is the responsibility of the employee to inform his/her reporting manager of the same. It is desirable to also inform the front office about the above so that visitors/callers can be given appropriate information.
Apart from official meetings outside office, employees are 
expected to be in office during the working hours.
Late Coming
It is the responsibility of the employee to be punctual.  Arrival in office beyond 9:50 am will be considered as  late coming. Late coming/early departure adversely affects the work culture and the organisation’s responsibility to  its stakeholders. 
The reporting manager will take appropriate action for 
habitual late coming/early departure as the case may be. If there is a special request as an exception, permission (in advance, whenever possible) should be taken from the reporting manager/regional head (in case of regional offices). 
Habitual late coming/early departure will attract action 
which may include leave deduction and can be stated in the overall performance of the employee during the year.
The key is not spending 
time but investing it.
8 Human Resource  Policy Manual4. Business Travel Policy
Objective
NASSCOM seeks to make an employee’s official travel 
convenient and cost-effective. The purpose of this policy is to lay down the broad guidelines, entitlements and 
procedures for all business travel for employees. 
General Roles and 
Responsibilities
•  Employees are responsible for compliance to the policy
•  Travel should be consistent with business requirements
•  Reporting manager is responsible for monitoring 
adherence to the policy when reviewing travel authorisation requests and expense reports
•  Approval authority: Function Head/Director/Senior 
Director/VP/SVP/President
•  Employees  must plan their travel in advance, so as to fully 
utilise discounted fares, multiple flight concessions, etc.
•  Anybody travelling on behalf of NASSCOM (e.g. 
employees, consultants, visitors and candidates for interview) is required to work with the admin office/ 
regional office. The admin office at both Delhi and other 
regions will strive to be responsive and will provide most 
efficient and cost-effective service
•  Travel sponsored by external agencies will require an 
approval by reporting manager 
•  Reimbursements are restricted to approved travel and 
for reasonable expenses as per entitlement, unless 
specifically otherwise approved
Travel – Planning, Authorisation 
and Guidelines
•  Wherever  possible,  travel needs to be planned in advance 
to take advantage of discounted fares 
•  All domestic travel requests need prior approval from the  
immediate reporting manager (For the President’s direct 
reportees, intimation to the President will be adequate) 
(Form 1)
•  For international  travel, in addition to the approval from 
reporting manager a formal approval of the President of 
NASSCOM is required. •  All travel reservations  will be done by the admin/regional 
offices through the designated travel agencies. Any 
reservations done outside of admin offices/designated 
travel agency will need approval by the manager
•  All employees must stay at lodging arrangements made 
by the organisation, subject to the maximum limit for lodging indicated later in this policy 
•  Cancellation or change in itinerary leads to significant 
or complete loss of fare. Any changes to the travel 
itinerary after the booking of tickets would need to be 
explicitly stated in the expense report with reasoning 
and approved by the manager
•  Excess baggage is not reimbursable, unless 
organisation’s equipment/material is being carried
•  Economy class of travel will be the mode for all 
domestic travel for all employees. President of 
NASSCOM will be eligible to travel by business class
•  Senior Director and above levels will be eligible to avail 
a corporate credit card for business travel and other 
expenses. Exceptions to this which are need-based would require specific approval of the President
Local Business Travel (Within  
the City)
Entitlement
•  Wherever  possible,  employees  must share taxis and use 
this entitlement judiciously
•  All employees are entitled to travel by metered taxi
•  The President, SVP and VPs are entitled to travel by Ford  
Ikons or equivalent unless there are business exigencies
•  In case, an employee uses his/her personal vehicle for 
official travel, the organisation will reimburse expenses at ` 10 per kilometre for four wheelers as fuel and  ` 5 per kilometre for two wheelers 
•  Parking and toll charges will be reimbursed separately 
on actuals. The parking slips, toll receipts must be provided for reimbursement
City-Wise Procedure: Delhi/Regional Offices
•  For travel from office, the employees will make a 
booking with the front office that will organise the taxi 
9 Human Resource  Policy Manualfor the staff. Due diligence will be exercised to share 
taxis wherever possible
•  The admin office will coordinate travel timings and 
booking of cabs to ensure optimum cost
•  Employees  will submit the taxi usage form with all details 
suitably filled in (kilometres used/meter reading), travel 
purpose and submit the same to the front office  
(Form 2)
•  For travel from outside office, the employee  can claim 
the amount spent on transportation through a duly filled 
claim form which will be reimbursed on actuals, after 
approval by the reporting manager. If the employee uses his/her own vehicle, they can claim expenses as per rates  
mentioned in the entitlement section
•  Employees  who do not use their personal vehicle to 
commute to office, can use a taxi as a mode of transport  
to office and back if required to work late (beyond 8:00 
pm) or to come early (before 8:00 am) on working days 
and if they need to be in office on holidays. (*Habitual latecomers staying late cannot avail the office transport 
for home drop)
•  Claims for reimbursement of personal vehicle usage  
expenses will be submitted on a monthly basis with a  
complete log/travel details on a day basis indicating the 
usage in kilometres, places visited and purpose of travel. Such claims will be approved by the concerned manager/regional head and submitted to the admin for payment. 
Domestic Travel
i) Entitlement
•  President is entitled to travel by air (business class) or 
train (AC first class)
•  All other employees are entitled to travel by air  
(economy class) or train (first class/AC second class) or air-conditioned car/taxi 
•  Air travel is not recommended for road journeys up to  
four hours
ii) Procedure
•  Employee proposing to travel is required to fill the travel 
request email (annexure) giving details of the date of 
travel, purpose of travel, place of travel, budget-head for travel and get it approved from the supervisor. If 
an advance is required, this should be stated in the 
approval document
•  An approved travel request shall be submitted to  
the admin office/regional office for all travel and  
hotel reservations 
•  The employees are expected to submit travel expenses 
within 14 work days of completion of the tour. All bills, 
air tickets, boarding passes must be submitted along 
with the claims sheet (Form no 3) to the admin office 
after due approval by the supervisor
•  No travel advance will be granted to an employee for 
a subsequent trip if he/she has not submitted travel expense report
•  Expenses for employees using corporate credit cards 
will be debited to the personal account of the employee 
until the claim form is submitted
iii) Accommodation
a. Cities Where NASSCOM Offices are Located
Employees in Grade 1-8 shall stay in recommended hotels 
or service apartments where NASSCOM has negotiated 
rates or tie-ups. This information is available with the 
admin in Delhi and with the regional offices 
All NASSCOM offices will make arrangements with  
service apartments in their respective cities to 
accommodate employee travel. This arrangement would 
be on a per day usage basis. The admin and regional 
teams will take periodic feedback from the visiting employees on the quality of service, security and overall arrangement of these hotels/service apartments and 
change as appropriate.
While no upper limits are specified for Vice President / 
SVP (Grade 9-10),/President it is expected that the leaders will use their judgement and discretion in selecting the accommodation.
For key events/meetings, employees may stay at the 
meeting venue to ensure suitable coordination.
In case, an employee stays with a friend/relative, 
NASSCOM will reimburse entertainment/gift  
expenses of up to `  1,000 per night. This amount  
10 Human Resource  Policy Manualdoes not include food and local travel, which can  
be reimbursed separately on actuals, based on  
bills provided.
b. Other Cities
All employees will exercise due caution in selecting the 
accommodation that is convenient and yet reasonable and 
not very expensive.
An employee from (Grade 1-8) can stay and claim 
reimbursement up to ` 5,000 exclusive of taxes per night. 
This amount is the upper limit. Any deviation will need to 
be approved by the President with the recommendation of 
the Senior Director/VP/SVP .
While no upper limits are specified for the Vice President/
SVP (Grade 9-10)/President, it is expected that the leaders 
will use their judgement and discretion in selecting the 
accommodation.
iv) Food Allowances
Employees will be reimbursed for meals on the basis of reasonable expenses.
While no limits are specified, employees are expected to 
maintain reasonable standards of expenditure on meals in keeping with the place of visit.
v) Other Expenses
a. Allowable Expenses 
•  Conveyance expenses for official work at the place of 
visit will be reimbursed Employees are expected to 
maintain judicious usage for official purposes only.
•  Laundry expenses will be reimbursed only when 
duration of stay exceeds three nights 
•  Expenses on business entertainment are permitted 
only with the approval of the concerned VP or President 
Business entertainment is defined as entertaining 
guests who have a direct official association with NASSCOM These expenses on entertainment and meals 
must be substantiated by receipts, and information on 
persons entertained
•  Communication costs and costs associated with the use 
of business offices in hotels or other places for business will be reimbursedb. Disallowable Expenses
Expenses incurred by employees on the following items will 
not be reimbursed:
•  Tobacco products
•  Books and periodicals •  Expenses on theatre, movies and DVD hire•  Health club/fitness centre/spas
•  Alcohol
vi) Claims Procedure 
Employees must claim their travel expenses within 14 days 
from the date of return to office, through duly filled claims 
form approved by the concerned reporting manager and 
submitted to accounts (in Delhi)/Regional Head (in regional offices) (Form 3).
Employees must make all air and train ticket bookings 
through the official NASSCOM authorised travel agent only. 
Employees should refrain from making bookings through 
any other travel agency. In exigencies, employees may make direct bookings, as an exception. 
The admin/regional team will keep the team updated on 
the empanelled travel agencies and specific arrangements.
The approved expenses will be reimbursed on a monthly 
basis to the employee bank account/cheque and due 
intimation will be provided.
International Travel
i) Entitlement
•  President  is entitled to travel business class on all flights 
•  VP/SVP may travel business class for international  flights 
exceeding five hours.
•  Other employees  (Grade 1-8) are entitled to travel by 
economy class
ii) Allowances
•  Employees  will be reimbursed  the actual expenditure  for 
board, lodging and transport
•  These expenses must be reasonable for that location
11 Human Resource  Policy Manual•  The reimbursements will be made on the basis of 
receipts to support the claims
•  The claims/receipts must be approved by the concerned 
Function Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior Director/
VP/SVP
•  Up to USD 30 per day can be claimed for incidentals/
miscellaneous expenses without receipts. This can be 
used for porters, tips, airport trolleys, etc.
•  In case an employee stays with friends or family, he/
she can claim USD 100 per day. This amount does not 
include food and local travel, which can be reimbursed 
separately on actuals, based on the bills provided
•  An employee claiming USD 100 per night cannot claim 
USD 30 per day for incidentals/miscellaneous expenses
•  The employee must use discretion while availing the 
above facility
•  Advance will be sanctioned by the concerned Function 
Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP
•  Employees must obtain travel/medical insurance 
before they travel outside the country. Insurance will be 
arranged prior to travel by the admin office
iii) Other Expenses
a. Allowable Expenses 
•  Conveyance expenses for official work at the place of 
visit will be reimbursed 
•  Laundry expenses will be reimbursed only when 
duration of the stay exceeds three nights 
•  Expenses on business entertainment are permitted only 
with the approval of the concerned VP or President. The definition of business entertainment remains the same 
as that defined for domestic travel 
b. Disallowable Expenses
The disallowed items (non-reimbursable) will be the same 
as for domestic travel.
iv) Procedure
Employees who are to undertake international travel must 
mandatorily seek prior approval from the President on the 
purpose and the duration of travel.Employees must claim their travel expenses within 14 days 
from the date of return to office, through duly filled claims forms approved by the concerned Function Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP and submitted to accounts in Delhi/Regional Head (in regional offices).
Employees must book their tickets through the official 
NASSCOM authorised travel agent only. In exigencies, employees may make direct bookings as an exception.
v) Foreign Exchange
•  Foreign currency and Travellers’ Cheques (TC) will be 
arranged through accounts and the finance department 
•  Employees may use their international cards as and 
when applicable and claims reimbursements according to the organisation’s limits and FEMA rule
•  All foreign exchange claims and payments will  
have to be within the limit set by the RBI and government regulations
vi) Visas for International Travel 
Logistical support for submitting papers for issuance of visas will be provided by the admin office. Approval of the President, NASSCOM is required for any visa processing. For any associated cost related to visa, the President will also approve the visa period. If there is a differentiating fee based on period, the President will approve the appropriate period.
Insurance
Employees are advised to take insurance cover (accident, medical, loss of baggage) for official travel. NASSCOM would bear the necessary cost.
Coming together is a 
beginning, keeping together is a progress, working together is a success.
12 Human Resource  Policy Manual5. Leave Policy
Objective
The leave policy has been formulated to enable the 
employees to maintain a healthy work-life balance. Leave 
is given to the employees for sickness/emergency/personal 
work/rest and recreation. 
Types of Leave
•  Earned  Annual Leave (including  casual and sick leave)
•  Maternity  Leave
•  Paternity  Leave
•  Advance  Leave
•  Leave  Without Pay (LWOP)
General Conditions of Leave
•  All leave records and leave calculations  shall be 
synchronised with the financial year 
•  Grant of leave is subject to the exigencies  of work and 
NASSCOM shall have the discretion to decide on the 
grant or refusal of it 
•  Sanctioning  authority  will be Function  Head/Director/
Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP 
•  In case of the President’s  direct reportees,  leave will be 
approved by the President 
•  Leave can be carried forward only to the extent of a 
total of 60 days
•  
•  An employee  who is absent for more than eight days 
after the period of leave granted, shall be deemed to 
have voluntarily left the organisation 
•  In case the employee  returns within eight days, he/
she will have to explain to the satisfaction  of the leave 
granting authority, the reasons for the unauthorised 
extension  of leave
Leave Application
•  All leave applications  must be made formally to the 
sanctioning authority by email (Form 4)•  Before proceeding  on leave, the employee  should ensure 
that the leave approved by the concerned supervisor has 
been forwarded to the admin
•  In case of emergency,  the immediate  supervisor  is to be 
informed but the matter is to be followed thereafter  
via email
•  Admin will record the leave post receipt of approval  
from the concerned sanctioning authority
Earned Leave
i) Entitlement
•  
•  Holidays  will be excluded  while computing  the days  
of leave
•  It is expected  that, except for exigencies,  employees   
will plan their leave in consultation with their  
immediate supervisor
•  Barring exigencies,  leave should be applied for at least 
one week in advance
Maternity Leave
Objective
Eligibility 
13 Human Resource  Policy ManualIt’s amazing how much 
you can accomplish 
when it does not matter 
who gets the credit.All women employees who have actually worked for
 not less than 80 days in the twelve months 
preceding the date of her expected delivery shall 
be entitled to maternity benefits from  NASSCOM.All confirmed employees will
be entitled to  21days of leave in a 
financial year. 
To facilitate expectant mothers to look after themselves 
and the new-born infant. This leave can be availed for 
adoption as well.
All excess leave taken quarterly shall be adjusted 
from the remuneration .Appro ving A uthorit y 
The appr oving authorit y is the c oncerned F unction He ad/
Regional He ad/VP/SVP. 
Paternit y Leave
Objective
To facilit ate father s to take car e of the new-born inf ant and 
the mother .
Eligibilit y
All male employ ees who have c omplet ed one y ear  
with NASSC OM.
Entitlement
Male employ ees will be entitled t o two week s of pat ernit y 
leave, in c onjunction with the deliver y dat es. This le ave 
must be av ailed within 30 days of the deliver y. The le ave 
entitlement is limit ed to two deliveries.
In case of adoption, the entitlement is f or one week of le ave.
In or der t o avail le ave, the le ave application f orm must be  
submitt ed with sufficient notic e on t entative dat es of le ave.
Appro ving A uthorit y 
The appr oving authorit y is the c oncerned F unction He ad/
Director/Regional He ad/Senior Dir ector/VP/SVP. 
Advance Leave 
If in any cir cumst ance the le ave av ailed is mor e than 
the accrued le ave, adv ance leave may be gr anted for a 
maximum period of seven days, subject to an overall Leave Without Pay
Eligibility 
Leave without pay will be given to an employee only in 
exceptional  circumstances  which could include personal  
reasons such as sickness in the immediate family or 
relevant higher education. 
Entitlement
There is no entitlement for leave without pay. Permission 
will depend on the reason, period and organisational needs 
at that time.
Approving Authority 
Leave without pay has to be recommended by the 
concerned Function Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior 
Director/VP/SVP . It can only be approved by the President.
Leave Record
A centralised leave record will be maintained by the 
administration in New Delhi.
All applications for leave, after appropriate approval, will be 
forwarded to the Administration by email.
Regional heads must check the monthly attendance 
register and forward a copy to the admin immediately after 
the close of the month.
Monthly update is provided by the admin team to all 
employees to check their record of leaves availed  
or accumulated.
Transfer/Relocation Leave
For facilitating relocation and movement of an employee 
from one city to another, five consecutive days may be 
allowed as official leave. 
14 Human Resource  Policy  ManualEntitlement
The leave application form must be submitted to Function 
Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP  
with sufficient notice on tentative dates of leave.Female employees will be entitled to 12 weeks of maternity
 leave for each delivery, of which not more than 6 weeks 
may precede the date of her expected delivery . In case of
 miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy or 
tubectomy operation or any illness arising out of any of 
the aforesaid, a woman employee shall, on production of
 the following, be entitled to leave as per the applicable 
law: (a) Medical certificate from the treating gynecologist.
(b) Medical certificate from a local gynecologist in case of
 delivery away from ordinary residence of the employee.entitlement of 21 days leave for the fiscal year. Requests 
for such sanction will be approved by the Function Head/
Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP .
If any employee leaves the organisation, excess leaves 
availed will be adjusted in the final settlement of accounts.This will include the packing, shifting, transition and 
settling in period.
Work From Home
Given the nature of NASSCOM’s work and need to interact 
with external agencies,  there is no ‘work from home’ 
policy. This may be allowed by the President only in very 
exceptional  cases for a limited period, where an employee  is 
still able to discharge his/her normal duties from home but 
is unable to attend office.Leave Encashment
Employees are entitled to encash their pending leave 
balance at the time of separation from the organisation. 
Any adjustment to accumulated leave against the notice 
period of 30 days will require to be discussed and approved 
by the Function Head and the President. 
Vision without action is 
day dream, action without 
vision is a nightmare.Objective
•  To cover reimbursement  for official calls made using 
employee personal mobile phones
Entitlement
•  The investment  and ownership  of the handset will rest 
with the employee. The organisation will not provide or 
reimburse the cost of the handset 
•  Monthly rental charges will be reimbursed  for all levels 
of employees (G1-G10)
•  Domestic  roaming fees will be reimbursed  for all levels 
of employees travelling on official work
•  For international  travel, the facility of an international  
SIM card can be availed by the employee from the 
admin (in Delhi). The charges for this can be claimed in 
the travel claims form 
•  Charges for downloading  games, ring tones, etc. will not 
be reimbursed
•  Officers in (G7-G10) can also avail the facility of  
email-enabled mobile like BlackBerry/iPhone, etc.  
This phone can be in addition to their existing handset,  
the or ganisation will r eimbur se 80 per c ent of the  
total bill( s). Howe ver, bills f or email and dat a ser vices 
will be r eimbur sed f or only one c onnection. The 
investment and owner ship of the handset will r est with 
the employ ee•  In all cases, reimbursement  is intended  only for official 
calls. Up to 80 per cent of the total bill amount will be 
reimbursed, as long as the total is within reasonable 
limits. The reimbursement can be availed up to a 
maximum  limit of ` 2,000 per month. This will be 
applicable for Grades (1-6)
•  For grade seven and above i.e. directors  and above, their 
immediate supervisor will approve the reimbursement if 
it is higher than ` 2,000 per month
Process
•  To claim reimbursement  on calls, the employee  will 
submit the bill on monthly basis with calculation of 80 
per cent of the total amount. The reimbursement will be 
on postpaid connection only
•  The charges for international  calling card would be 
claimed as a part of travel claims form
15 Human Resource  Policy Manual6. Mobile Phone ReimbursementLeave encashment is worked out on
the basis of the fixed salary and 
does not include the variable component.  
The weekly Saturday offs in the financial year, shall not 
be eligible for accumulation or encashment by 
employees.7.  Policy for Recruitment and 
Staffing
A.  Selection and Recruitment 
Policy
B.  Engagement of Temporary Staff 
C. Internship
D.  NASSCOM Fellowship Program
16 Human Resource  Policies ManuaL7A. Selection and Recruitment Policy
Objective
•  To attract the best talent for the role at the optimum 
cost while ensuring that the recruitment process is fair 
and transparent
•  To help ensure that there is an equal opportunity  provided 
to all candidates, there is no discrimination on any ground, 
and that the selection is based purely on merit
Scope
This guideline/policy is applicable for all recruitments for NASSCOM at all grades in the organisation.
Procedure
a. Personnel Requisition Process
•  The staffing/human  resources  plan will be approved  by 
the President as a part of the annual budget
•  The Function Head/Director/Regional Head/Senior  
Director/VP/SVP concerned will provide the following 
inputs to the HR department for each position; job description, designation, key responsibilities,  
reporting relationship, qualifications, proposed  
gross compensation
•  Based on the above, the HR department will initiate the 
talent search
•  The creation of any new position or post during the year 
can only be authorised by the President
•  All employees will be issued an appointment letter 
detailing the terms and conditions of service. 
Irrespective of the position, each employee will be on six months of probation from the date of their joining. (Annexure 1)
•  Post probation, based on a performance review, 
confirmation letter will be issued, signed by the President (Annexure 2) 
b. Selection/Recruitment Process
•  After consultation with the President and concerned 
supervisors on feasibility of an internal job posting for the position, HR will give an opportunity to internal candidates to apply for the role. At the same time, suitable candidates will be invited through the 
placement agencies and web posting
•  HR will shortlist the candidates and conduct the first 
round of interview, followed by the Function Head/
Director/Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP
•  The final selection based on assessment of two senior  
team members will be made with the offer letter  
signed by the President. In case of exigencies where  
the President is not available, the offer letter may be 
signed by the SVP , to be subsequently ratified by  
the President
•  For senior managers and above, all selection will be  
conducted after interview with the President. For 
other grades, the President may selectively meet the  
shortlisted candidates, if required
•  An Interview Assessment Sheet shall be filled for all  
the candidates interviewed
•  HR will ensure two reference checks, documented in  
the specified format. The offer of employment will be 
made only on receipt of satisfactory references
•  The compensation  package must be approved  by  
the President
•  Accounts will be responsible for salary structuring,  
keeping in mind the compensation structure of  
the organisation
•  The decision  will be conveyed  to the selected  candidate  
by HR within two weeks of the interview, through an 
offer letter approved by the President
•  The candidate will be given the job offer with a  
deadline of three working days to respond through his/
her signature on a duplicate copy of the offer letter
•  I f recruited through external placement consultants,  
consultant fees will be paid as per the agreed terms and conditions after the joining of the employee
•  If none of the selected candidates accept the offer, the  
selection process will begin all over again
c. Contractual Employment
•  For certain specific or senior positions, appointment  
can be of contractual basis and will be governed by the 
terms and conditions of the contract
•  These appointments will be on a case-to-case basis  
after approval by the President
17 Human Resource  Policy ManualApplicability
All regular recruitments shall follow the above process.
General
All efforts will be made to give candidates a positive 
impression of the organisation, through all correspondence, conversation and interviews. Travel arrangements will be made for outstation candidates invited for interviews.
18 Human Resource  Policy Manual7B. Engagement of Temporary Staff
Objective
Facilitate specific temporary requirement of manpower 
(e.g. tele-calling, data entry, coordination, surveys) for a 
specific duration. This temporary engagement can be made at a nominal cost to the organisation. Such temporary 
manpower will be governed by the terms of the contract 
and does not establish any employment relationship. Going 
forward, a recruiting agency may be engaged to facilitate 
employment of persons as ‘Temporary Staff’
Scope
•  Short Assignments: For specific events/activities, 
temporary staff may be hired for a maximum duration 
of four months. Any extension to this will need specific 
approval from the VP/SVP
•  Project Assignments: For specific projects that are of 
medium term (6-24 months), temporary staff may be hired for coordination activities. This can only be done 
with pre-approval of the President
Profile of Candidates
Candidates with good verbal communication skills and/or 
expertise in using MS Office.
Procedure
•  The Function Head/Regional  Head will decide on the nature 
of the requirement, the number of persons required, the 
time duration and the compensation to be paid
•  This would need to be sanctioned and approved by the 
Vertical Head/VP/SVP
•  A copy of the approval will be sent to HR for offer letter 
and records
•  The Function Head or the assigned superior would 
brief and guide the temporary staff on the task. It is 
important that the task is well-defined and appropriate 
tracking is being done to measure the effectiveness of 
the role and responsibility
•  The Function Head/assigned superior shall verify the 
attendance of the temporary staff
•  The Vertical Head/VP/SVP  will be the authorised  signatory 
for issuance of experience letter/work certificate, if any•  Payment for the temporary staff on short-term 
assignments will be on a daily basis for working days and will be made monthly or on completion of the assignment, on the basis of invoice from the temporary staff with appropriate verification by the supervisor
•  For project assignments, a fixed monthly remuneration 
will be provided. Leave for such staff may be approved by the Function Head up to one day of each working month. This will be applicable only in cases where the arrangement is for more than three months and up to a maximum of 24 months. Any exception to this will need the approval of the President
•  The temporary staff will need to follow all necessary 
processes laid down by the organisation
19 Human Resource  Policy ManualObjective
The purpose of the internship is to provide hands-on 
exposure to students undergoing a professional course.  
The benefit to NASSCOM is in the form of new ideas and fresh perspectives and also for some special projects which are short-term or one-time in nature.
Scope
•  To leverage  the capabilities  of students  enrolled in a 
professional course e.g. undergraduates enrolled in 
engineering or graduates doing their post graduation in management, internships may be offered 
•  Students  will be assigned  specific projects and work 
closely with assigned mentors. At the end of the  
period, the intern will summarise the output of  
the assignment
Profile of Interns
Students enrolled for a professional degree and possessing 
good communication skills and learning ability. 
Stipend
Undergraduate interns may be paid up to ` 10,000 per month as stipend and a graduate intern up to ` 15,000 per month. A higher stipend can be considered in cases of niche specialisation or more experience.
Procedure
•  The Function Head/VP/SVP will decide on the nature   
of the requirement, the number of persons required,  
the time duration and develop outcome specific of  
the project
•  HR will maintain the records for offer letter
•  The function  head or the assigned  superior would 
brief and guide the intern on the task
•  It is important  that the task is well-defined  and 
appropriate tracking is being done to measure the 
effectiveness of the role and responsibility. Due attention is to be given for objectives desired from the project and mentoring the intern•  The mentor should spend time in coaching and guiding 
and ensure that the intern carries a good image  of NASSCOM
•  The function head/assigned  superior shall take care that 
the interns so engaged matches  the internal expectation 
in terms of values and behaviour of other employees
•  In case of travel required for official purpose, the 
guidelines for travel policy will apply. Travel should be approved by the function head
•  The function head will be the authorised signatory for 
issuance of work certificate, if any
•  Payment will be made monthly or on completion of the 
project, on the basis of invoice from the intern with appropriate verification by the supervisor7C. Internship
Goals provide the energy 
source that powers our lives. Goals concentrate our energy.
20 Human Resource  Policy ManualObjective
To leverage  the expertise  of industry  professionals   
to work at NASSCOM on specific initiatives and to offer 
them a unique opportunity to broad base their learning 
and development as well as play a key role in contributing to the overall industry growth in India. These initiatives could exist both at the national and regional level.
Process
Interested member organisations will submit  
appropriate resumes best suited for the nature of activities. Depending upon the aptitude, experience,  
location, etc. NASSCOM will associate the individual to  
a specific opportunity.
Profile of Fellows
Typical Candidate Profile
•  Industry experience of 8-10 years 
•  Should have been with the current organisation for at 
least three years
•  MBA, CA or relevant professional qualification
•  Good articulation and analytical skills
•  Programme management skills and ability to take  
end-to-end ownership
•  Should view working with NASSCOM as an  
aspirational goal
Duration and Other Terms
•  Planned as a year-long programme, ‘NASSCOM Fellows’ 
will work with the NASSCOM team to structure, research and programme manage specific initiatives
•  This would require working with the current team and 
opportunity to meet and interact with cross-section of industry experts
•  The selected candidate/s will need to disassociate 
with the organisation activities (except HR/finance) and work as a NASSCOM team member. Some roles may allow individuals to work from home or use their organisation facilities on need basis•  NASSCOM  will issue an agreement  to the ‘Fellow/s’ 
regarding the terms and conditions of engagement
•  NASSCOM  member  organisations  that participate  in 
this programme will pay the salary of the employee 
and NASSCOM will take care of the travel and incidental expenses, For special program, NASSCOM  
may agree to pay a part of the salary also.
•  The person/s will also be eligible for participation in 
team activities, specific trainings and the annual offsite
NASSCOM may issue a certificate to the ‘Fellows’ at the conclusion of the programme to recognise their contribution to NASSCOM and the industry.7D. Fellowship Program
21 Human Resource  Policy ManualObjective
This policy aims to enable NASSCOM to fill job positions by 
drawing from the pool of internal candidates possessing the desired qualifications/experience to execute the role, and to promote talent from within, whenever possible.
Scope
All employees of NASSCOM.
Procedure
a. Identifying Open Position
•  When a position becomes available, the function head 
will complete a resource requisition document and submit it to the HR 
•  HR and the function head will review the resource 
requisition document to decide if the resource position can potentially be filled from within NASSCOM
•  All available positions will be uploaded on the ‘career 
section’ of NASSCOM website
•  Any employee desirous of applying for the said position 
may send their request to HR via their manager
b. Evaluation and Selection
•  Evaluation of the internal candidate and selected 
external candidates will then be undertaken to 
determine the best fit for the role
•  HR will notify the employee if the employee does not  
meet requirements
•  In case of a positive response from both the  
outgoing and incoming function heads and selection  for the role, the decision will be approved by the President. Post the approval, transfer and plan for replacement and knowledge transfer of the  outgoing employee will be completed within  specific timelines
•  HR will coordinate the date of the employee transfer 
which should not exceed three months from the date of selection notification to employee
•  HR will communicate the movement within the 8A. Policy for Internal Job Posting
organisation via email and notify finance, admin  
and internal IT functions for the relevant changes  to be made
22 Human Resource  Policy ManualObjective
To help new employees...
•  Become familiar with the vision, mission, core values 
and objectives of the organisation
•  Gain an overview of the organisation in relation to 
its structure, services and future plans; meet other 
employees within the organisation
•  Understand their role as an individual and part of a 
team, in the achievement of organisational goals
Scope
All newly recruited employees.
Procedure
The process of induction will start from the first day of joining and after completion of joining formalities.
i)  Orientation programme for all new employees would be 
to provide information about:
•  Introduction of the organisation
•  Vision, mission and values of NASSCOM•  Structure of the organisation and functions of  
different verticals
•  HR policies as per existing HR Policy Manual
ii)  For newcomers joining the corporate office, HR will 
make the introductions to the staff and also send an 
email to the team informing about the new joining.
•  All functional heads will take time and meet the 
newcomer and inform him/her regarding  
his/her function
•  For a newcomer in the regions, the regional head will 
facilitate smooth joining and a visit to the corporate 
office will be arranged at an appropriate time
iii)  Other issues to be arranged by the admin for the 
newcomer at the earliest: (as applicable)
1. Allocation of office space
2. Purchase or allocation of office equipment including:•  Laptop
•  Telephone/desk/chair
•  Official email id
3. Business cards
4.  Account opening in organisation’s specified bank and 
branch for crediting salary8B. Induction Policy 
Three rules of work: From 
clutter, find simplicity, from discord find harmony, from difficulty find opportunity.
23 Human Resource  Policy ManualObjective
To develop an integrated process of objective setting, 
assessment and evaluation that will support individual employee and organisational growth and help create a 
performance-driven culture. The performance management 
system aims to create a high performance team.
Scope
All confirmed employees, Grade 1 onwards, will be eligible for the annual review.
Performance Planning and  
Key Result Area (KRA)
The Performance Planning is an important part of the 
Performance Management System as it makes the objectives of the organisation and individual performance 
clear and simple. The guiding principles for KRA setting 
would be:
•  NASSCOM vision and mission statement
•  Unit mission/goals; individual job description•  Previous period’s performance goals and/or  
assessment
•  KRA’s should follow the ‘SMART’ principle of being  
‘Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and  
Time-Bound
Performance Assessment
•  The Appraisal review cycle is from April to March
•  The performance appraisal form is sent by HR through  
email to all employees detailing the timeline process 
to be followed (Annexure 3)
•  The process includes self-introspection, self-appraisal  
by the employee, the concerned functional head and 
the reviewer
•  Post review by the President,  appraisal  discussions 
of reviewers with their respective individual team 
members will take place
•  Salary revision if any affected for the financial year  8C. Performance Management System
Career Development
•  Inputs from the performance review exercise can be 
used for planning the career development of  
the individual
•  To ensure the growth of an individual, development 
strategies like training, coaching, mentoring, job rotation and job enlargement may be deployed
•  To achieve career enhancement, areas for development 
needs to be identified with focus on the current as well 
as future job responsibilities of the employee 
•  Promotions will be based on the performance rating and 
the potential for moving into the next level
Guidelines for Appraisal
•  Every individual should receive ongoing feedback  
during the year and a formal annual performance assessment/appraisal 
•  During the assessment sessions, the appraiser should 
create an open and approachable environment in which a two-way discussion can be made possible with  the employee
•  The employee  on his/her part should be willing to give and 
receive proper feedback during the assessment session
•  Performance assessment discussion should cover how 
the year that went by was for the employee, what  he/she has achieved, how was it done and what the way forward is for the employee
•  Both the appraiser and the employee should have all 
the facts and data to support the employee’s KRA 
performance achievements ready with them during the appraisal discussions so that any ambiguity in the target achievement can be cleared immediately
Continuous Learning and 
Development
•  The various activities  at NASSCOM  require different  sets 
of experience,  knowledge  domain and competencies. 
Many initiatives require specific domain knowledge but 
as NASSCOM plays its role as the aggregator, employees need to be geared towards programme management and not necessarily deep domain skills
24 Human Resource  Policy Manual•  In the prevailing  dynamic  situation,  in order to meet 
the expectations  of our members,  employees  are 
encouraged and offered opportunities to enhance 
their skills level on a continuous basis
•  The feedback  received  as per the annual performance 
appraisal  exercise  also helps in identifying  the 
training needs. Some of the key needs relate to 
communication skills, relationship management, 
programme management and building a high 
performance team
•  Keeping  in view the challenges  of a small and diverse 
work team spread over different locations, effort 
is made to arrange relevant training workshops by leveraging our member organisations. Industry veterans,  professional  consultants  and HR experts 
address the need through our events and also through customised training workshops
25 Human Resource  Policy Manual9. Laptop Policy 
Objective
This policy aims to provide guidelines for the eligibility, 
procurement and use of Laptops for NASSCOM employees.
Procurement of Laptop 
Computers
NASSCOM will procure Laptop computers and associated 
peripherals only via the Administration Team at Delhi.
The team in-charge of IT at the Delhi office (here after 
referred to as Technology team) will advice on suitability of 
laptop and peripherals as required.
The current configurations that have been approved can be 
obtained from the Technology team. The Technology team 
will review the configurations on half-yearly basis.
General
•  All staff (irrespective of grades) can use laptops if they 
need to work across locations or travel for work on a 
regular basis or need to work from home frequently.
•  In case of a new incumbent coming at an existing 
position the laptop returned by the old employee on exit 
will be used.
•  If the laptop is over three and half years old it will move 
to the laptop pool and a new laptop will be procured.
•  Technology team will install the licensed version of the 
required software /backup applications on the user 
laptop. We don’t allow piracy please do not load pirated 
software’s.
Management of Laptop 
Computers
•  Users who leave the organization are responsible for 
handing over the laptop in absolute working condition 
together with any additional equipment relating to 
the laptop. It is also essential that all official data be 
retained in the laptop.
•  Staff based in Delhi must return their laptops to the 
Technology team on or before the relieving date.
•  Staff based in Regional Offices  must return their 
laptops to the concerned Regional Director / Head on or before the relieving date.•  Any changes related to location of equipment should be 
notified to the technology team.
•  For prevention of data theft  all laptops would have a 
password which will have to be changed every  45 days.
Loss, Damage, Replacement and 
insurance 
•  The physical security of the allocated laptop is the 
employee’s personal responsibility, so all reasonable 
precautions must be ensured.  The employee must be 
sensible and stay alert to the risks.  
•  It is the employee’s responsibility to take appropriate 
precautions to prevent damage to or loss/theft of the 
laptop and other assets. 
•  Damage or loss for the first time in the  laptop cycle 
time will be informed to the function head and repair 
work will be undertaken by the organisation.   
•  Repeated occurrence by the employee will be deemed 
as negligence towards office property. This will attract 
a penalty of cost debit towards the recovery of the expense incurred.
•  If the laptop is lost or stolen it must be reported to the 
Technology and Admin team immediately. 
•  For theft or loss out of office, Admin team will assist 
in reporting this to local police station as well. The police report should include the serial number for the lost computer. A copy of the police report must be 
shared within 48 hours of the discovery of the loss for 
insurance claim
•  All staff members must secure their data 
through passwords and regular backup to prevent data loss.
•  Staff members will be eligible for are placement of 
the existing laptop after a minimum laptop age of 3.5 years. The need for replacement of a laptop will be 
evaluated on the basis on are port by the Technology 
team confirming that there placement is needed and necessary. An exception to this rule may be signed off by the President.
•  All Laptops will be insured by the administration team 
under an All Risk Cover.
26 Human Resource  Policy ManualLaptop Pool
•  Laptops that are more than 3.5 years old and have been 
replaced will move to a “Laptop Pool” .
•  The laptops in this pool can be used as temporary 
substitute machines if any of the primary machines 
used by staff is not functioning or for specific needs e.g. 
conference presentations.
•  Each NASSCOM office will have at least 1 laptop for 
 the pool.
•  All pool laptop requirements must be sanctioned by the 
concerned Regional Head/ VP / SVP .
•  All pool laptops will be issued by Administration in Delhi 
and by Regional Head sat the Regional offices.
•  Pool laptops are NOT meant to be primary machines  and 
are not to be used by staff or their daily use.
•  Pool laptops that are more than 1 year old (i.e. total age 
of laptop is more than 4.5 years) will be written-off / 
discarded/ donated with proper documentation. This 
should only be given to NASSCOM Foundation even if it is to be donated  to a specific person it should be routed 
through NF.
Data Cards
•  For employees who need to travel for work frequently, a 
data card to connect the Laptop to the Internet can be 
procured vide approval by the relevant Vice President.
•  The Data card is provided to employees to facilitate 
online access while one is outside the office premises 
and as a fall back option.
•  The current permission plan for the data card is of 2.5 
GB of free usage per month.  All extra usage charges will have to be borne by the employee.
•  There may be exceptional circumstances (very long 
duration of travel, internet access failure in office. etc) – 
in which case, the relevant functional head will need to 
approve the usage. Since these cards have been issued 
to the employees of NASSCOM, they should not be used 
by anyone else including family members or friends.
Bring-Your-Own-Device (BYOD) 
The policy applies to all employees, Fellowship program, 
Temporary staff, Visitors using the following devices:
•  Non NASSCOM issued Laptops 
•  Mobile phones, PDAs and smart phones  with Email 
Access Laptops 
•   Users are not permitted to connect their personal 
laptops on the office network without the approval of the Technology Team. 
•  For staff on Fellowship programs, they are allowed to  
use their existing device  under following  conditions: 
- Antivirus has to be updated 
-  Windows updates have to be enabled 
-  Backup Software would be installed to backup a 
particular folder where NASSCOM related things are saved.
•  Any other visitors are ONLY allowed to connect on guest 
network.
Mobiles/Tablets 
•  Employees need to ensure that a Mobile Device that is 
used to access email is locked by a password. 
•  In case of the device getting lost or misplaced, the 
Technology team should be informed immediately so that the device can be wiped out to factory reset.
•  In case of employee selling the device or handing it over 
to someone else, ensure that device data is completely wiped and the technology team is informed.
•  Please note - number of sign-in failures before device 
data is wiped out will be set at 8, so if the wrong password is entered more than 7 times, the entire device data will be automatically erased.
27 Human Resource  Policy Manual10. Confidentiality Policy 
Objective
Owing to the nature of work at NASSCOM, many employees 
would be handling confidential information that is critical 
not only for NASSCOM, but also for other organisations 
and individuals. Integrity, one of the expected core values for all employees, includes maintaining the sanctity of all confidential information.
Procedure
•  Any employee, who has reason to believe that the 
confidentiality of the organisation is being violated, 
should immediately bring any such instance to the 
notice of the HR or the concerned Function Head/Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP/President
•  To ensure the sanctity of confidential information, each 
employee will ensure the safekeeping of all official 
documents, records or notes in whatever manner stored (including matter in computer memory) for which he/she is responsible
•  He/she will also ensure the safe custody of all storage 
devices and stored matter and any documents which are transported outside the office
•  Member confidential information, policy documents, 
research data and reports, all databases are the 
exclusive property of NASSCOM and cannot be used by employees for any activity/tasks outside the official scope of work assigned to them
•  All employees may be made to sign a non-disclosure 
agreement. Violation of the terms of this agreement can lead to disciplinary action and or termination  of services
•  Employees leaving NASSCOM cannot carry/upload/
forward any information collected/maintained/built by them during their assignment with NASSCOM
Guidelines
The discipline of confidentiality is best when it is  self-imposed. Therefore, the attempt of NASSCOM will 
be to make people aware of the dangers due to lack of 
confidentiality or indiscretion, rather than impose penalties.
However, in the event that there is a major breach of 
confidentiality leading to the leak or misuse of any sensitive information, it may lead to the termination of the 
concerned employee, if he/she is proved responsible for such a breach.
28 Human Resource  Policy Manual11.  Information Security and Social  
Media Policy 
Information Security 
NASSCOM seeks to ensure that all the electronically and 
physically maintained information is secure by compliance 
of the following rules:
•  While NASSCOM has not barred occasional personal 
use of computers, these are meant for official work. 
Therefore, employees shall not have privacy protection 
in their use of NASSCOM computers and networks
•  Usage of social networking sites for personal activities 
is not permitted from the workplace. Employees are 
encouraged to maintain self-discipline 
•  All unwanted documents of restricted information that 
are generated in the course of work/copying/printing 
must be destroyed
•  Use of NASSCOM computing power for personal gain 
or in a manner inconsistent with professional conduct 
or inconsistent with the confidentiality policy is strictly 
prohibited, e.g. downloading inappropriate material 
from the internet, sending chain/mass mails, which do 
not have a legitimate business purpose
•  Employees are not authorised to access another  
co-worker’s computer without the employee’s  
express consent or Function Head/Regional Head/VP/SVP’s approval
•  Usage of pirated software on NASSCOM computers is 
not permitted
•  Employees must refrain from installing/downloading 
software from external sources; any such requirement 
will be first assessed by the IT department, who will undertake/supervise such installation
•  Employees must log off and shutdown their 
workstations before leaving for the day
•  Employees must not make any comments publicly or 
electronically that may be misconstrued as representing 
NASSCOM views unless they are authorised to speak for 
the organisation
•  No office information/data may be copied or 
transmitted for personal use or for the use of any 
outsider, unless duly authorised by the Director/
Regional Head/Senior Director/VP/SVP/President
The technology team/support staff will carry out a check every six months to ensure that all computers conform to the policy. A report on exceptions will be shared with  
the President.
Social Media Policy 
Scope 
All Forums, file sharing sites, portals, blogs and other  
social networking channels that are operated by  NASSCOM employees. 
Instructions for Employees 
•  All interactions should be professionally relevant 
•  Employee should adhere to principles of conduct and 
professionalism that govern other in-person and 
workplace communications 
•  Abusive, harassing, defamatory, obscene, offensive, 
provocative, promotional, irrelevant, deceptive, or 
hateful content should not be published
Maintaining Confidentiality – Prohibited 
for Sharing 
•  Announcements, documents, discussions or other 
information shared in internal meetings 
•  Internal emails, notes, memos and other interpersonal 
communications 
•  Internal documents not specifically marked for external 
distribution 
•  Continually review community contributors, 
contributions, and content and enforce adherence to the organisational code of conduct, as well as community expectations for conduct and information value
•  Cite original sources when referencing or leveraging 
someone else’s work. If possible, a link to an online reference for the source work should be included. This protects copyright acts and fair use laws
Implementation
•  While we encourage self-moderation, any views 
expressed are the employee’s own and are not 
endorsed by or necessarily representative of NASSCOM. 
NASSCOM reserves the right to remove any content 
29 Human Resource  Policy Manualwithout any formal notice. Decision to this respect  
is final 
•  NASSCOM will also identify all social channels that can 
be used by employees as official NASSCOM channels – this needs the written approval of Functional Head/ VP/SVP
•  Usage of NASSCOM-issued official id for all official 
channels across platforms is mandatory. Gmail, Yahoo! or similar account cannot be used
30 Human Resource  Policy Manual12. Relocation and Transfer Policy 
Objective
To make the relocation process smooth and convenient for 
the employee.
Eligibility
Relocation can be done in the following circumstances:
•  To meet the needs of the organisation•  Subject to feasibility and vacancy, a request from an 
employee regarding the transfer/relocation
•  An employee transferred from one location to another 
for a period of more than six months, where transfer includes shifting of residence
•  A new employee who has to relocate from his/her 
current location of residence to take up the role  with NASSCOM
Procedure
i) New Hire
•  For a new employee, HR will issue an offer letter to the 
employee with a pre-determined relocation date and inform accounts and admin of the relocation via email with a copy to the function head. The relocation should not be later than three months of joining
•  The employee can claim expenses through a duly filled 
relocation/transfer expense claims form, approved by the concerned Function Head/Regional Head/VP/SVP/President and submit it to accounts (for Delhi)/regional head (for regional offices)
•  The reimbursement will be paid directly to the 
employee. In special cases, an advance may be given  to the employee based on approval from the concerned 
VP/SVP or the President
ii) Existing Employee
•  In case of transfer of an existing employee, HR will issue 
a transfer letter to the employee, duly signed by the President, authorising the transfer
•  The employee can claim expenses through a duly filled 
relocation/transfer expense claims form, approved by the concerned Function Head/RD/VP/SVP/President and submit it to accounts (for Delhi)/regional director 
(for regional offices)
•  The reimbursement will be paid directly to the 
employee. In special cases, an advance may be given to the employee based on an approval from the concerned VP , SVP or the President
•  If the transfer/relocation is from one city to another 
necessitating travel and shifting of one residence to another with household effects, maximum of five consecutive days shall be allowed for such relocations. This will include shifting/transition and settle  in period
•  The employee should ensure proper transition of his/her 
work to the concerned functional head
iii) Entitlement 
The employee will be entitled to a reimbursement against 
actuals, to a maximum of one month’s gross salary, payable towards resettlement expenses. This will be worked out on the basis of the fixed cost to organisation and will not include the variable component.
The following expenses may be reimbursed, on the basis of 
supporting bills/receipts:
•  Packing expenses on actuals by a recognised packer
•  Transportation expenses on actuals by a railway or 
transport firm 
•  Transportation of personal vehicle by train or road  
on actuals
•  Travel expenses of self, spouse, dependent children  
and the dependent parents living with the employee at the time of the relocation/transfer, will be reimbursed on actuals as per the employees’ entitlement in the travel policy
•  Brokerage  for the house to be leased based on prevailing 
rates/norms in the city of relocation
•  Cost of accommodation  and local travel at the new location 
for a maximum  period of two weeks. The reimbursement 
will be on actuals based on the bills submitted
31 Human Resource  Policy Manual13.  Dress Code 
Objective
NASSCOM expects all employees to be attired in a manner 
that is appropriate for the work/meetings scheduled for the particular day. 
NASSCOM’s corporate attitude promotes a dress code that 
is professional and comfortable.
Guidelines
Employees are expected to dress professionally. For formal/official meetings, jeans and T-shirts are not considered appropriate. These are allowed as Friday dressing. However, in case of meetings and appointments arranged, the dress should be formal.
Suggested guidelines to professional dressing are:
Men
•  Full/half sleeves shirts and trousers•  Formal shoes with socks
•  Tie for meetings and if representing NASSCOM in social 
or official gatherings
Women
•  Indian or Western formals
In general, while there cannot be fixed dictums in the 
light of the diversity of our climate, culture and clientele, NASSCOM employees are expected to dress and follow personal appearance standards that are in keeping with the organisation’s image as a professional, international and efficient trade body representing a major Indian industry. While some team members may not have a customer facing role but casually dressed employees do not communicate a professional approach to external visitors to the office.
Any dress deemed inappropriate or unprofessional may be 
addressed with the individual by his/her manager on an individual basis. 
32 Human Resource  Policy ManualGratuity
Objective
The objective is to provide social security to an employee 
when the person retires. Gratuity is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972.
For this purpose, NASSCOM has taken an insurance policy 
with Aviva Life Insurance.
Eligibility
All employees of NASSCOM who have rendered a continuous service of five years or more.
Payment
An employee is eligible to receive gratuity at the rate of 15 days basic salary for every completed year of service.
Calculation
Gratuity will be calculated on the following basis:
(Last monthly basic salary x 15)/ 26 x number of completed 
years of service 
Provident Fund
Objective
The objective is to provide financial security to an employee when the person retires or leaves the organisation.
Eligibility
Every employee of NASSCOM is covered under the Provident Fund scheme from the day he/she joins the organisation.
Contributions made to the Provident Fund 
•  The employee and NASSCOM contribute 12 per cent of 
basic salary each
•  These contributions are a part of the Cost-to-Company 
(CTC) of the employee
•  The amount is credited to the Provident Fund account 
as per the rules for Provident Fund14. Benefits Policy 
Medical Insurance
Objective
•  To provide all employees of NASSCOM and their 
dependent family members with medical security and 
assistance in case of an emergency
•  The personal accident and group medical insurance 
policy covers disablement on account of accidents, 
reimbursement of hospitalization expenses for illness/disease or injury sustained
•  For extending this benefit, NASSCOM has taken a 
suitable insurance policy
Entitlement
All NASSCOM employees are covered and entitled as per their grade/designation in the organisation. Details on 
individual coverage can be obtained from the admin (Delhi). 
Procedure
•  The insurance policies will be taken for all employees by 
the admin based at Delhi
•  Admin will get insurance forms filled by new employees 
on joining NASSCOM
•  The premium for the insurance policies will be borne by 
NASSCOM
•  Upon promotion/change to higher level, it will be the 
responsibility of the admin to enhance the sum insured 
and inform the employee accordingly from the next 
renewal of policy
•  The insurance scheme will aim to provide cashless 
insurance across different cities and hospitals in the 
country. Due intimation and copies of the bills will be provided to the admin team
•  In the event of hospitalization and cashless scheme not 
being available, the employee has to intimate in writing about his/her sickness with a doctor’s certificate to 
NASSCOM and to the insurance firm
•  The employee should submit the claim in the prescribed 
form along with the doctor’s certificate of fitness and 
bills within 60 days of discharge from the hospital. These will be forwarded by the admin to the insurance 
firm
33 Human Resource  Policy Manual•  All bills/claims under the policy will be handed over to 
the admin within a reasonable time frame as provided in the policy document. The admin will have the responsibility to follow up with the insurance firm on behalf of the employee
•  All claims will be settled as per the policy of the firm 
providing the insurance cover. NASSCOM will not be responsible for any disallowance of claim by the firm providing the insurance
•  The procedures may change from time-to-time, as laid 
down by the insurance firm. All such changes will be intimated to the employees via email
Addendum: Insurance Cover for Retiring employees
1)  Subject to the other terms of the insurance policy, the 
organization will offer continuity of the group mediclaim insurance cover for its retired employees. The individual will make application to HR department and will be responsible for directly paying the insurance premium post their respective retirement. This offer is available for all the employees retiring w.e.f. 1 October 2013.
2)  NASSCOM shall not be held responsible for any dispute resulting from receipt of premium, or processing or disbursement of claims, or any other matter whatsoever..
Corporate Health Check-Up Plan
Objective
To facilitate health assessment and preventive health management amongst employees.
Entitlement
1.  Comprehensive health check-up once in two years for employees in the age group below 40 years and annually for employees in the age group of 40 years and above.
2.  This formal health check-up should be done in a reputed full service hospital offering executive health check facility. This may also include diagnostic clinics providing comprehensive executive health check-up plan.
3.  Reimbursement of check-up fees of reputed hospitals will be up to a maximum of ` 3,000 per employee which should cover most of the normal routine tests. Any amount spent over ` 3,000 to be borne by the employee.
Procedure
1.  Submit an application for reimbursement along with the 
money receipt for the check-up in original duly signed and verified by the employee (Form 5)
2.  The employee will get the comprehensive health check-up done as per the executive health check-up plans of reputed hospitals.
3.  Typical tests covered under such plans are as given in the annexure. Your physician may recommend a suitable test plan for you.
4.  Based on the medical assessment report, the employee should take up necessary measures for their personal health management.
34 Human Resource  Policy Manual15. Retirement Policy 
Objective 
To lay down the guidelines for retirement. 
Scope
All regular employees 
Guidelines
•  The retirement age for all employees excluding the 
President is 60 years
•  For the President, NASSCOM, the terms and conditions 
of employment, including but not limited to age of retirement will continue to be determined by the executive council or an executive council-appointed committee
•  The retirement from the organisation will be at the end 
of the month in which the age of 60 years is attained
35 Human Resource  Policy Manual16.  Exit/Termination Policy 
Objective
This policy governs separation and exit from employment 
at NASSCOM. 
NASSCOM recognises the cost of losing staff in terms of 
financial impact, lost skills and experience, weakening 
of established teams and networks, reduced corporate knowledge and lower staff morale. 
The policy identifies the terms under which separation can 
occur and enables the exit to be conducted in a mutually 
beneficial environment (in terms of suitable handover and 
valuable feedback).
Scope
This policy covers all regular employees of NASSCOM who 
wish to end their services.
Separation can occur in the following circumstances:
•  Retirement conditions as given under chapter 15
•  Resignation •  Abandonment of employment/unauthorised absence•  Termination
Resignations
Resignation information to the management can be made 
in writing via a letter and duly signed by the employee. It should be addressed to the Function Head/Regional Head/
VP/SVP and be clear about the date that the employee 
wishes to exit on.
The employee must get the resignation to be accepted in 
writing by the Function Head/Regional Head/VP/SVP .
Notice Period
•  NASSCOM requires all employees to provide one month 
notice or salary in lieu thereof
•  In exceptional circumstances, the notice period on 
recommendation of the Functional Head/VP/SVP may 
be reduced as approved by the President
Exit Interview•  All employees who leave NASSCOM are able to provide 
valuable information on their experience while they worked here. This information can be used to improve policies, procedures and practices with the aim of increasing appropriate grades of staff retention
•  In the period between the notification of separation 
and the staff member’s final day of employment, they will be approached by the HR to provide feedback about their employment and reasons for leaving. The information collected will be retained by the HR
The information so collected will be shared with the President and the concerned HOD with utmost confidentiality.
Abandonment of Employment/
Unauthorised Absence
•  An employee  absent for 30 calendar days or more 
than eight days after the period of leave granted shall 
be deemed to have voluntarily abandoned/left the organisation
•  The organisation  shall deem this as an automatic 
relinquishment of employment with NASSCOM
•  The organisation is not liable to pay any notice pay 
•  Full and final settlement will also be subject to a 
suitable handover of organisation assets/documents and incomplete assignments
Termination of Services
 The services may be terminated by NASSCOM by giving 
one month’s notice or salary in lieu thereof. The notice of termination of employment shall be given in writing and shall become effective from the date of receipt of the notice by the other party.
Handover Process of Functional 
Responsibilities and NASSCOM Assets
On the last day of employment, the employee must return 
any articles issued to him/her by NASSCOM during the period of service and provide a written confirmation to this effect. Additionally the employee will be required to 
36 Human Resource  Policy Manualprovide a written confirmation that he/she has not retained 
any copies of documents (in paper, electronic or any other 
form) , In the event, he/ she discovers to be in possession 
of any document(s) in paper, electronic or any other form , the employee will undertake to return such document(s) to 
NASSCOM immediately and provide a written confirmation 
that all documents have been returned and were not used , shared/ disseminated with any third party by him/her.
Items to be handed over on the last day:
•  Laptop, data card/modem to manager IT
•  Credit card if any, ID cards, etc., to manager/admin•  Reports, documents, meeting papers, databases, 
contact sheet to the function head
All such handovers must be documented and signed off 
on the clearance form, which must be completed by the 
exiting employee and handed over to the HR on the last day 
(Annexure 4).
Data on the laptop related to NASSCOM will be handed 
over to the technology team prior to the relieving of the 
employee. They will ensure the data is kept safely in a 
retrievable storage and also sign the clearance form to this effect. Any exception to this will have the approval of  
the President.
Issue of relieving letter and processing of the full and final 
settlement is contingent to employee completing this 
handover. This process will be applied uniformly, even to the 
most senior level person.
Full and final settlement processing will be done centrally 
by accounts (in Delhi) for all NASSCOM employees.
Documentation will be maintained centrally by the HR, 
who will also issue the relieving letter once the full and 
final settlement has been done between the employee and 
accounts (in Delhi).
Relieving letter will be signed by the President only.
37 Human Resource  Policy Manual17.  Rewards and Recognition Policy 
Objective
To ensure that the contributions made by employees 
through the years are valued and formally appreciated. It aims to encourage in the employees’ positive reinforcement of dedication in performance and commitment in longevity of service.
Guiding Principles 
•  Eligibility: All employees from grade one onwards will 
be eligible for rewards and recognition as per this policy
•  Discretion: Rewards and recognition of service 
should not be viewed as entitlements; they are at the discretion of the organisation
•  Financial implications: The cost to fund these  
awards programmes, in the year of its inception  
(2010) and also the subsequent years of its 
implementation will be allocated and monitored by  
the accounts department
Definitions
Rewards
•  An immediate and instant award, to create spontaneity 
by an appreciation
•  This award should occur as close to the performance of 
the actions as possible
Recognition of Service 
 Award for longevity in the organisation as a special 
encouragement to employees who have chosen to spend significant years of their career with NASSCOM.
Awards
i) Spontaneous Rewards 
Verbal, informal interaction and communication is most 
effective in reinforcing desired behaviour. It can be spot awards for encouragement and appreciation. The objective is to create 
a spontaneous response. There should not be too much of a 
gap between the action performed and the reward.The exceptional contribution or performance will typically 
fall under the following categories:
•  Proactiveness – Quick and swift actions taken  
independently, demonstrating a sense of ownership
•  Innovation and creativity  – Going beyond regular process 
in achieving target and servicing members, suggesting 
process improvements leading to improvements in quality, devising new ways of working in the organisation that results in time saving or easier work processes
• Delivery – Achieving challenging and difficult timelines
•  Teamwork – Demonstrate true ‘team player’ attitude; 
volunteering to help and encourage team spirit
•  Stakeholder delight – Going out of the way to help 
both internal and external stakeholders, exceeding their requirements, reflecting extraordinary service 
orientation to achieve customer satisfaction
•  Revenue generation/Cost reduction – Suggestions/
actions which result in substantial savings
Implementation of Spontaneous Rewards Awards
Budget: All Senior Directors/VP/SVP will have a pool of 
funds for spontaneous awards. The pool will be credited with an annual amount of ` 2,500 each for employees in  
his/her team. The budget is the upper limit and while it is 
not necessary that the full amount has to be disbursed, it is expected that the criteria mentioned below will be taken into account. The quantum of the reward should not exceed   
` 5,000 for a team member at one given time. 
•  Reward will be given in the form of gifts/gift  
vouchers only
•  Nomination will be from the Functional/Regional Head 
ratified by the VP/SVP
•  Appreciation mail to the performer will be sent by the 
VP/SVP/President regarding the rewards to the eligible team member
•  Rewards disbursement will be at intervals at the 
discretion of the VP/SVP/President. There should not be too much of a gap between the action performed and  
the reward
ii) Long Service Recognition Award
NASSCOM has been involved in the pursuit of excellence 
since 1988. It enjoys an unparalleled brand value on the 
38 Human Resource  Policy Manualbasis of the excellent work done by the team members over 
the years. Long service recognition awards are meant to appreciate and encourage the employee contribution  to NASSCOM.
•  For the purposes of calculating the tenure for ‘longevity 
of service’ , the continuous, uninterrupted length of service will be considered
•  This scheme aims to celebrate and reward certain 
milestones of the employees. Employees’ service for completing 5, 10, 20, 25 years with NASSCOM will be acknowledged and recognised
•  Long service awards shall only be handed to persons 
who are still in service of the organisation
•  If a person qualifies for more than one service awards 
as on the effective date of this policy, then only the highest one will be awarded
Implementation of Long Service Recognition Award
HR will track the employees eligible for long service award with 
the organisation and coordinate the felicitation formalities. 
The year in which the completion of years of service will take 
place, will be taken as the reckoning period for felicitation.The recognition by felicitation and presentation of plaque 
will be as given below:
•  For employees completing five or 10 years recognition 
by VP/SVP/President
•  For employees completing 20 years or more, appropriate 
public recognition
•  The recognition awards matrix will be as under:
Years 5 10 20 25
Certificate/
PlaqueYes Yes Yes Yes
Cheque/ 
Gift` 5,000 ` 10,000 ` 20,000 ` 30,000
Felicitation 
byPresident/ 
VPPresident EC and Public 
RecognitionEC and 
Public 
Recognition
Cheque/gifts award will be given around the actual date of 
completion of the longevity period. The cheque/gifts award is subject to tax as per the Income Tax.
39 Human Resource  Policy Manual18.  Guidelines for Honorarium Received 
Objective
Provide guidelines to staff who participate in government 
meetings, committees, sub committees, interview panels, advisory boards, forums, etc. 
NASSCOM recognises that there will be opportunities 
where individuals may temporarily undertake duties 
and may be offered additional payment or rewards or 
honorarium for such activities.
Scope
The issue of honorarium will arise in the following two 
scenarios for all members of staff:
•  Participation as a NASSCOM representative
•  Participation in personal capacity e.g. board of  
other organisations
Guidelines
i)  Any staff member of NASSCOM invited to join a committee ex-officio, must keep the President and his reporting manager informed on the core focus of the committee and broad activity area
ii)  No NASSCOM employee should accept any honorary or 
sitting fees if:
•  Representing NASSCOM in a committee, or
•  Being invited to join a committee ex-officio as a 
member of NASSCOM, or 
•  Addressing a programme on behalf of NASSCOM
iii)  In the above cases, if the inviting organisation covers 
travel, stay and or local transport, the same can be accepted. However, if the organisation is not bearing the costs, NASSCOM will bear the costs and an expense 
claim is to be submitted 
iv)  Where the participation involves travel aboard, a prior 
approval of the President would be mandatorily required, detailing the purpose and duration of the participation and the trip
v)  In cases of participation in personal capacity in a board or another social organisation, etc, the offered honorarium may be accepted by the individual. The expenses of 
attending such meetings will need to be paid for by the inviting organisation. As a matter of governance, the President/reporting manager are to be notified of  this participation
vi)  In some cases where the honorarium has still been received, it should be donated to NASSCOM Foundation or to another charity under information to the Function Head
The world is but a canvas 
to the imagination.
40 Human Resource  Policy Manual19.  Emergency Assistance 
Objective
Requests for emergency monetary assistance may be 
granted to help out an employee  for any exceptional   
home-related  exigencies/contingencies  for self or 
dependent parents/siblings. ‘Emergency’ is defined for this purpose as an unforeseen event involving medical, financial and life or safety situations beyond an employee’s control.
Applicability
•  All confirmed employees of NASSCOM are eligible
•  It will be allowed in exceptional  cases where the employee 
faces a personal emergency/contingency situation. This is 
not an entitlement and not a loan programme
•  It will be the discretion of the President, to grant or 
refuse an application, even if otherwise eligible
Entitlement
•  The maximum assistance available will be three months 
gross salary or ` 2,40,000 whichever is lower 
•  The repayment will be in 12 (or less) equated  
monthly instalments 
•  This will be treated as advance salary and hence, 
interest will not be payable
•  An employee having a balance of previous advance 
cannot take further advance until the previous balance 
is fully repaid
•  The assistance will be repayable w.e.f. one month 
after disbursement. The accounts will ensure monthly 
deduction from salary and the aspects of perquisite-
related tax
Procedure
i)  The application for advance must be made in the standard format as per the specified form 
(Form 6)
ii)  The application will be routed as follows:
Step 1: Make an application in the prescribed format and handover for the approval of the VP/SVP/PresidentStep 2: The vertical head shall forward it to accounts for 
verification of eligibility and permissible amount
Step 3: After verification, the accounts head will submit to 
the President for approval
Step 4: If approved, the application will be documented by 
accounts for payment